# Dhaka-Air-Pollution-Prediction
This is a repository that contains the codes and the some of the processed data used for the undergraduate thesis titled "Forecasting Air Pollution of Dhaka City with Meteorological Parameters Using Deep Learning-Based Approach". For more details please contact me at: rvnrafsan@gmail.com

# Abstract of the thesis work
Due to rapid socio-economic changes and an ever-growing population, Dhaka city expanded dynamically without any proper planning and control. Consequently, in the past few decades, the city has witnessed an alarming degradation in the overall environmental condition, especially in the air quality. Despite the serious health concerns associated with different air pollutants, the city is yet to implement an effective early warning system for air pollution due to the lack of a proper framework. In this study, a deep learning-based air pollution forecasting system using meteorological parameters has been developed. Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), a Recurrent Neural Network-based architecture, has been used to predict the concentration level of different pollutants. The prediction performance of the developed model has been compared with the prediction performance of a Fully-connected Artificial Neural Network (ANN) and Multiple Linear Regression (MLR).
The daily concentration of six criteria air pollutants (SO2, NO2, CO, O3, PM2.5 & PM10) has been collected from three different Continuous Air Monitoring Stations (CAMS) in Dhaka, operated by the Department of Environment (DoE). The corresponding daily meteorological data including 7 parameters (Average Humidity, Average, Maximum and Minimum Temperature, Total Rainfall, Wind Speed, and Total Sunshine Hours) were collected from Bangladesh Meteorological Department (BMD). A combined dataset was created using the Inverse Distance Weighting technique and the models were trained with the combined dataset. This study provides useful insights on the choice of meteorological parameters for training the dataset. It was also found that there is a seasonal correlation between the air pollutants and meteorological parameters. The performance of all three models was measured and compared using different model performance evaluation metrics (RMSE, MAE, MBE, MAPE, and R-squared value) along with the scatterplots, and time-series plots of the observed and predicted concentration levels of air pollutants. The results indicate that for air pollution forecasting, the proposed LSTM model is a better alternative to ANN and MLR. Finally, this study also provides a useful strategy for better handling the missing values during training and testing such datasets. As only meteorological parameters are required for future forecasting of air pollution, the proposed model is practical and easily implementable.
